# Binary-Search-Tree

**Problem being solved** – The task of this project is to design code in C++ which will read from a file which contains data for a Computer Science Departments courses into a chosen data structure. There will need to be a menu for user options to include reading a data file, printing a general course list in alphanumeric order, printing a specified class with prerequisites, and an option to exit the program.

**Approach** - When designing a project, it’s important to consider all forms of data structures to choose the best option for the program requirements. I opted to store data using a vector and binary search tree method. A BST will allow for quickly loading, sorting, and displaying data retrieved from a file. I created a pseudocode document to create a suggested blueprint for coding this project. After checking everything followed a sound technical approach, the next step was developing software.

**Roadblocks** - The main roadblock when creating this project involved implementing the Binary Sort Tree method. It requires a great deal of attention to detail when using pointers to ensure the tree will be traversed in the correct direction while sorting through data. To ensure I didn’t run into any confusion issues, I used inline comments to dictate which directions the pointers should be storing for each segment of code. After confirming the code worked as expected, I cleaned up inline comments for the final presentation.

**Lessons learned creating this project** - Working on this project has really given me the opportunity to explore data structures such as vector sorting, hash tables, linked lists, and binary search trees. I now have a better overall understanding of the pros and cons of each data structure. This knowledge will allow me to choose the best storage method based on a software project requirements. This project also provided me with an opportunity to fine tune my coding skills. My code is user friendly with naming standards that are easy to comprehend and inline comments that help explain each portion of codes purpose. This will be beneficial for alterations if needed.
